It looks brand new.
There's not a
single scratch on it.
I'm glad you're okay,
because I need your help
more than ever, my friend.
This could actually
be our final battle,
and I can't win
it without you.
It's gonna take
everything we've got...
So I hope you're
ready for a long day.
I can't thank you
enough, Lon Beruk.
Congratulations, Dai.
This is exactly
the boost you needed.
And now that the
sword's even stronger,
you won't have any
problem channeling
your Draconic Aura, right?
Well, the sword
doesn't get any stronger.
I do - but I still can't
focus my power without it.
Lon Beruk: You aren't
the only one who's improved.
You see, I've done a
little tinkering as well.
The sword remains a conduit
as it always has been.
But in battle, you should
be able to unleash
an even greater
power than before.
The secret to this is
not the blade itself;
but it's scabbard.
Oh, really?
That's right. I've written
all the details down here.
Just read through
it before you head out.
It's okay. I've got
you covered, Dai.
I've also made
some enhancements
to the Dark Armor Spear...
Am I to understand that
Hyunckel's been captured?
Lon Beruk: That's a pity...
You've lost two of your
strongest warriors.
Honestly, I'm amazed
that you've decided to
go through with
infiltrating Vearn Palace
despite these
circumstances.
One might call it bravery,
but I call it recklessness.
Human nature just
baffles me sometimes.
Nova [thought]:
Who is this guy?
Well, at least
I've forged a weapon
for each of Dai's companions.
Perhaps they'll give you
a chance at success.
Wait, you made
something for each of us?
That's right!
Get a load of these.
[surprised breaths]
Baduck: This one's
the new Dark Armor Spear.
There's an axe for Crocodine,
and this staff is for...
Hang on. What's
happened to Popp?
He's, uh...
Yeah, I haven't seen
him for a while now.
Apparently, he was
headed into the forest.
Oh. I guess he's been doing
some serious training, too.
So... Is this one for me?
Yes, and it's some
of my finest work.
Lon Beruk:
The Dark Armor Fist.
Maam: It's beautiful.
It's designed to be used
with your non-dominant hand.
Aw, man.
Of course everybody here
gets a new weapon but me.
Baduck: Cheer up.
There's one for you, too.
What?!
No way. The Lon Beruk
made a weapon for me?!
Er... No, this
one's my invention.
The Barbed Nunchaku!
Baduck: There you go.
Yikes...
This little devil
will shred any foe!
[chuckle]
Yeah, and it looks like it'll
shred my hands
while it's at it.
You know me so well.
I love it.
Yowch!
[laughing]
Get a hold of yourself.
There's no need
to be so emotional.
Lon Beruk...
I mean no offense,
but I wonder...
You're a Darkling-
so why help us humans?
If you want the truth,
I was never really on
the Dark King's side.
I merely did what
he asked me to do...
And I may have forged
the Staff of Edacity,
but it wasn't my
craftsmanship that made it
the strongest
weapon in the world,
it was King Vearn himself.
With his power?
He could level a whole city
with nothing but a knife.
Frankly, he was most boring
customer I've ever had...
This a far more
interesting endeavor...
Seeing the weak scrape
together what power they can.
Does that answer
your question?
Leona: Wow, that guy
is really prickly.
[awkward laugh]
Yeah, I know...
But deep down, he's
really not such a bad guy.
I say it's time we rescued
Crocodine and Hyunckel.
With these,
we're sure to win!
Right, everyone?
I'll take...
Crocodine's axe...
He'll be swinging
it before you know it.
What is this thing made of?
Ursa, up!
[growl]
Thanks, that's not
embarrassing at all.
Then I'll take the
staff and spear...
But, Amy...
You take the staff,
but I'll carry the spear.
Lady Amy: I want to
deliver it personally...
to the man that I love.
Well, duh.
That's right.
I'm in love with Hyunckel.
Lady Amy: At first,
I didn't want to believe it.
How could I...
love the Legion Commander
responsible for
destroying our country?
But then, slowly
I came to realize...
that inside, he's really
pure and vulnerable.
It's almost like his heart...
is made of shattered glass;
it's sharp but delicate.
No matter what
he may have been,
I was still drawn to him.
Before the last battle,
I took his spear,
and hid it away in a place
I knew he'd never look.
I really didn't want
him to fight again...
I couldn't bear the
thought of him being hurt.
Maam [thought]:
I... I didn't know.
Only... It was
a terrible mistake.
It only drove him away,
and I left him defenseless.
But now I understand,
and if he wants
to live in battle-
if he wants to be punished
for all his mistakes...
Well, then I embrace his fate.
And I accept it as my own.
I have to make sure
he knows the truth.
You wouldn't mind,
would you Maam?
What? Uh, s-sure...
I - I guess I'll go find
Popp and give this to him.
M-Maam...
Don't you worry, Amy.
We've got your back.
You'll be seeing Hyunckel
again, very soon.
And when you do,
make sure you
tell him how you feel.
Oh, I already did...
Sadly, he turned me down.
Wow, what a moron.
He must be under
a Muddle spell.
So, what d'you think?
Well, it's
exciting, isn't it?
That's not what I meant.
You know what they say,
the heart wants
what it wants...
And also, Maam
clearly has no idea
what she's working with -
this might inspire her.
This could be a
great opportunity
for her to grow as a person.
Your expression is saying
something very different.
Oh?
Is, uh, something going on?
Ah, it's nothing!
Just battle plans...
Dai [thought]:
If Merle gets involved,
we're never going to
make it to Vearn Palace.
Okay... Well,
the food is ready
for everyone now,
Queen Flora.
Flora: Good. Once we've
eaten, let's all check
our weapons one last time...
and then try to get as
much rest as possible.
For tomorrow, we go to war!
All: Yeah!
How could I miss that?
I had no idea Amy felt
that way about Hyunckel...
I kinda feel sick. No -
I'm not jealous, am I?
Popp [thought]: According
to the Ancient Tome,
there are five types
of soul power
required for
the Kaglimmer spell.
There's Courage, Love,
Fortitude, Justice...
and a fifth one which
is too faded to make out.
Well, great.
How much you wanna bet
that one's yours, Popp?
Dai is obviously Courage...
Maam is Love...
Leona's Justice...
I wouldn't be surprised
if "Hyunckel" means
fortitude in some
language I can't speak.
So... Mine is
the mystery word...
And I'm pretty sure
it's not "clueless"...
but, what else do I deserve?
I mean, I only got this far
by the skin of my teeth.
And really, the only
reason I even tried was
because I wanted to impress...
Maam: Hey, Popp.
Oh, Maam.
I'm sorry if I
interrupted your training.
No, I was finished.
Popp [thought]: I want to
tell her, but... I can't.
She can't find out that
I'm not like the others.
That I'm... mediocre.
Maam: Here. Lon Beruk
made you this staff.
There's a set of
instructions, too.
Lon Beruk turned up?
Yeah. He found Dai
and Hyunckel's weapons
and did some repairs...
He even made a few new ones
for the rest of us to
take into battle, too.
Wow. Pretty
thoughtful for him.
With the Sword of Dai, we
might even stand a chance.
All right. Let's see what
kind of weapon this is.
Hey, uh... Listen, Popp...
Popp: Mhmm.
Can I talk to you about
something that, uh...
It's kinda awkward.
Yeah, sure. What's up?
Well... It's, um, it's
sort of about Hyunckel.
Maam: I don't really
know how to say this,
but I think I've
got feelings for him.
I know I told you...
that I didn't know what to think
about him as a man before...
But, something's different.
Like, I've...
never really felt this
way about any man in my life.
I tried to brush it off...
But Amy just told everybody
that she's in love
with Hyunckel,
and when she did, I got
this weird sinking feeling.
So does that mean
I'm jealous of her?
Or am I just confused because
someone other than
us understands him?
I - I don't know.
M-Maybe I really do...
Popp: Shut up.
I can't believe you.
How am I supposed to know
what you don't
even know yourself?
Figure it out, Maam!
Whoa, what is your problem?
Popp: The biggest battle
of our lives is tomorrow.
We might not be coming back...
and you're freaking out
about your stupid feelings?!
Well, whatever.
I do not care if you're in
love with Hyunckel or not.
I - I'm sorry, Popp.
Tomorrow is a big day,
and I didn't realize
how hard you were training.
I just needed a friend...
And you're the only one I
can talk to about this stuff-
or, I thought you were.
I was wrong.
Popp [thought]:
No, Maam. I'm wrong.
She came to me
because she trusts me,
and I threw it in her face -
because of my feelings.
I can't even be
honest with her.
No wonder this dumb little
rock won't shine for me.
I'm... hopeless.
I can't stand it!
What just happened...
How did I do that?
"The Black Rod, for Popp.
This absorbs Magic Power
and converts it into
physical energy.
It can also extend
and change shape
according to
the user's will."
Huh.
Wow, this thing is incredible!
It's kinda similar to
Vearn's Staff of Edacity.
And it changes shape, too?
I must have
accidentally imbued it
with Magic Power
in that moment.
And if it's able turn
that little of the stuff
into a blast that size?
This'll deal some serious
damage if I push myself.
Popp [thought]:
It's the only way now.
All or nothing.
Everything I tried
wouldn't make
my Insignia
of Avan glow.
So, I'll just have to
figure something out
on the spot and
hope for the best.
Everyone is counting on
me to pull my weight.
I can put it all together
at the last minute.
It's like Matoriv said:
I have to believe in myself.
Chiu: That's right,
my friends.
We ride into battle at dawn.
It's what we've
been training for,
so I hope you'll
give it your all!
[cheering]
With that said...
Some soldiers have
brought to my attention
that we monsters might be a
little tricky to distinguish
from our enemies in
the heat of battle, so...
All of the Beast
King Commandos
are going to wear
these badges!
Now, I've assigned a
number for each of you.
There - and Otoad makes ten!
Huh? Wait... Hang on.
Something's fishy.
Why are there eleven of you?
Brokeena: Boo!
Chiu: M-Master?!
Master Brokeena,
why are you here?
Brokeena: Brokeena?
I've never heard of him.
No, sir.
I am the Beast King
Commandos eleventh helper.
The creature of
mystery... Mr. Beast!
Uh-huh.
You know you're not
fooling anybody, right?
Brokeena: But helping
my students in secret
makes me so much cooler.
Now can we see about
getting me a badge, please?
I'd like to fit
in with the others.
Master...
Akhim: The execution is meant
to take place in Loroi Valley.
Part of the Dark Army
is already there.
We have mountain
cover on every side...
If we're surrounded,
there won't be any escape.
The terrain is
certainly an issue,
but our biggest
problem will come
when it's time to cast
the Kaglimmer spell.
In that time,
the Disciples of Avan
won't be able to fight.
Our remaining forces will
have to fend off the enemy
with everything we've got.
You can leave that part
of the puzzle to me.
I'm sure we can
rally the soldiers.
Lon Beruk: Is such
a patchwork army
going to be enough?
Oh, yeah? What do you care?
I'm just wondering
how you're planning
to hold your ground.
Seems important.
If Vearn breaches your line
before the Disciples are
finished, well, you're all dead.
Do you want a new scar?
You know, some of us
aren't here on a whim
like you are, you old goat.
I'm willing to risk
everything for this.
Risking your life doesn't
guarantee that you'll win.
You could die in vain.
Oh, yeah?
Calm down, Nova. He's right.
Lon Beruk: Yeah,
take it easy, kid.
I'm not saying all of
this just to insult you.
As a matter of fact,
I'm trying to offer
you a helping hand.
A helping hand, huh?
You would join in
this battle yourself?
Lon Beruk: Yes.
I thought it might be
interesting to follow
you all to the end.
Oh - hello, Dai.
What are you doing?
I'm preparing medicinal
herbs for the soldiers.
What about you?
Trouble sleeping?
Yeah, I was getting
bored of lying down
with my eyes closed.
Nerves, right?
I know I should,
but I can't relax.
I have just the thing.
Give this a try.
It's called a Dream Seed.
Like the name implies,
it's great for healing fatigue.
It will help you rest.
Huh.
And... They say
it's able to grant those
who are pure of heart
a vivid dream which will
fulfill whatever they wish
for the most when they take it.
I'm sure you'll have
a wonderful dream
and wake up refreshed.
Thanks for the help,
Merle. Goodnight.
Of course. Goodnight, Dai.
Merle [thought]: May
the gods bless you with
a peaceful slumber and
restore your strength.
Because tomorrow,
you and your friends
will face a battle far
beyond my imagination.
Dai [thought]: Don't be
sad, Mom. It's okay.
This is my choice.
I'm going to fight.
I know it's going to take
everything that I've got...
But I promise I won't lose.
Leona: There you are.
Well, you look chipper.
Something good happen?
Yeah, I saw my mom in a dream.
Leona: Your mother? Wow.
I know. She was so beautiful.
I wanted to thank
Merle for giving me
a Dream Seed,
but I can't find her.
You didn't know? She left
earlier with the others.
She's going to fight, as well.
Even Merle's coming?
I tried to argue,
but she wouldn't hear it.
She told me that if the fate
of the world is in the balance,
she'd rather be
fighting alongside us,
even if she isn't
as strong as we are.
I see. So where
are Popp and Maam?
That is a very good question.
[knocking]
Popp: Maam, you in there?
What is it?
Popp: I just came
to apologize.
I shouldn't have
yelled at you yesterday.
I lost my temper...
I do care about
your feelings, okay?
I'm sorry.
Oh, don't worry about it.
It was all my fault.
Popp: Why don't we
just forget it happened,
and focus on today instead?
I mean, you can't
tell Hyunckel how you feel
if you don't rescue
him first... Right?
Maam: Right.
Popp [thought]: And if
you're praying for Hyunckel,
do me a favor and send
one up for me too, Maam.
Pray that I don't screw up
when we all cast that spell.
Huh? Aww...
I thought there'd be drama.
You're disappointed
there isn't?
Sorry to keep you waiting.
It's finally time.
I know you all
already know this,
but I'm going
to say it anyway.
Failure is not an option.
The whole world's
counting on us.
If we assume
for even a moment
that we'll get a
second shot at this,
then it is not going to work.
This is going to be
our final battle.
Understood?
Now... Let's move
out, everyone.
Yeah!
Right.
Narrator: In Loroi Valley,
the stage is set
for Hyunckel and Crocodine
to meet their demise,
and Vearn Palace looms
in the sky above...
But Mystvearn approaches
his former protégé
and unleashes his
Dark Aura in an attempt to
use Hyunckel for
his evil ambitions.
Will Dai and the
others be able to rescue
their friends
before it's too late?
Find out on
the next episode of
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Dark Hyunckel".